So I just take this analogy from [UNKNOWN]
slides sometimes when I talk about asthma.
So if you think of different kinds of
asthma, allergic sensitization, and the
path of genesis.
You know you think you might have some
allergy exposure, which you brings into
your body,
the specific [UNKNOWN] you know
[INAUDIBLE] which has
been sensitized and these [UNKNOWN] that
to our mediators.
And these plans where mediators
create classical symptoms, of bronchial
construction,
mucus, generations like that.
And the way that we can attack this, is
primarily
through medication So you have like your
inhaled corticosteroids over here.
You've got your anti-leukotriene type
modifiers over here.
You've got your anti-IgE type stuff over
here.
And, and so that all does varying type of
jobs of,
of, affecting people's asthma But then,
there's also this part up here.
So one of, one of the reasons I'm excited
about a lot of this
environmental intervention stuff that
we're doing is that it kind
of affects the most upstream part of the
disease process.
And not only does it affect this most
upstream part.
But it's actually very inexpensive
relative to all this medication.
So, it's efficient, and it's potentially
powerful.
And so that's kind of this, that's kind of
nice.
So if you were to translate this over, to
kind
of a way that research is disseminated so
there's people,
people conducting research over here that
may be problematic,
it may be incorrect in terms of the
analysis.
They submit a paper to some journal, that
goes through some, the, and the paper
gets published, and after the paper's
published, you
get the data and you get the code.
And you can see what they did.
So, the typical kind of safe guards are,
[INAUDIBLE]
maybe editor thinks it stinks so he
rejects it.
Or if they send it out then there's peer
reviews.
And the peer review's supposed to be a
check on something.
And if it, then if it gets past your
review it gets published, so
that's where reproducible research comes
in at
the most downstream aspect of the process.
And so there's a lot of discussion now
about doing this, and so the
idea is that okay well why would wait for
all the data and the
code to available after the thing is
published.
Why not do it as part of the publication
process?
And I think that's, that's a noble goal,
but I think totally unrealistic.
Because I don't think it's realistic to
expect peer reviewers to kind of reproduce
everything.
I speak from experience.
So Of those of you who are not in
statistics, you know, are not
used to waiting the typical six to twelve
months for your review to come in.
And if you add on top of that the need to
reproduce the entire analysis you would be
promoted 40 years from now.
So so, so that's reasonable and I'll give
an example of that.
But I think the questions well, is there
something we can do?
I mean in the most upstream part of this
process.
And so that's what I want to talk about
today.
So this one example of moving the
reproducible part to the peer reviewed
passport, it's not exactly up here but
it's somewhere up screen a little bit.
This is just, we have a policy at the
journal of bio statistics, which is easily
the best
statistics journal in the world, and and
I'm the
associate editor for what's called the
associate editor for reproducibility.
And we have a very light policy, it's
totally voluntary,
where you can submit your date and your
code to the
editor, the associate editor for
reproducibility
and he, [INAUDIBLE], will reproduce it.
And if you if it's not a very, it's not a
hundred percent fool
proof policy but it's never happened that
I haven't been able to reproduce anything.
But if you, it is really useful, you get
this little R stamped on the top of your
paper.
Now there's two other options, there's a D
and a C.
If you submit your code, then you get a
little C over there.
I don't check that, I just assume that's
fine.
If you submit your data, you get a D.
If you submit your data and your code, you
get a D and a C.
And if I reproduce it, you get an R.
So and then this is Jeff's only
contribution to this work.
[LAUGH] And [UNKNOWN] these papers.
He got an R.
And it took me a week to reproduce it, but
it was fine.
So anyway, so that's one model.
This is not really a kind of a deterrents,
so to speak,
because it's old voluntary happens after
the paper is deceptive from pure evil.
So but, anyway so this is one model
[UNKNOWN].